---
title: Creating a RQT Dashboard
sidebar_label: Creating a RQT Dashboard
sidebar_position: 3
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

After working in the terminal, gazebo and RViz, it's time for a change
of pace. For this tutorial we will be detailing the basics of creating
your own rqt dashboard! A dashboard is a single rqt window with one or
more plugins displayed in movable, resizable frames. Dashboards
generally consist of a number of plugins that in combination provide a
suite of UI capabilities for working with robots and robot data.

Dashboards can be populated and configured interactively in an rqt
session. A preferred configuration can be saved as a "Perspective",
which saves the plugins loaded, their layout, and where supported, their
settings and last-saved initial parameters (such as what topic we were
last plotting). In this tutorial we will be working with the Husky
simulation in ROS Noetic. To install ROS Noetic, please [see these
instructions](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Ubuntu), and visit
our [Husky page](http://wiki.ros.org/Robots/Husky) to install the Husky
simulation.

## Getting Started

The first step is to install rqt! We will also be installing some common
plugins to create our dashboard

```
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-rqt ros-noetic-rqt-common-plugins ros-noetic-rqt-robot-plugins
```

We can then launch RQT by simply using:

```
roscore
```

And then in a new terminal tab we can launch rqt

```
rqt
```

In the Plugins menu, select each plugin you want to load. You can change
the layout by dragging and rescaling each plugin by its title bar or
edges.

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/pluginselection.png)

## A Practical Example

We'll now create a rqt dashboard with a few useful plugins and
demonstrate a potential use case for this particular dashboard. For this
tutorial we'll be using our virtual Husky to simulate sensor data. Open
Husky up in Gazebo using:

```
roslaunch husky_gazebo husky_playpen.launch
```

You can mimize Gazebo for now as we set up our rqt dashboard. Begin by
opening the following plugins from the plugins drop down menu, and
re-size them as you like,

- Rviz
- Plot x2
- Bag
- Robot Steering

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/With_Plugins.png)

Each plugin has their own uses and settings, for more information about
a particular plugin, visit the [rqt plugins page of the ROS
Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/rqt/Plugins).

When you're happy with a dashboard configuration, you can save the
perspective by selecting **Perspectives \> Create Perspective,** giving
it a name, and asking it to clone the current perspective. These
perspectives are saved locally and persist between sessions.

To export a perspective for closer management such as sharing or
persisting to a repository, select **Perspectives \> Export** and give
it a name with the filename extension, .perspective.

## Loading a Perspective

A perspective can be loaded interactively in RQT by selecting
Perspectives, import. However it's useful to launch them directly from
the command-line, which allows us to wrap them in a script that can be
rosrun or roslaunched:

```
rqt --perspective-file "$(rospack find my_ros_rqt_package)/config/my_dashboard.perspective"
```

Some plugins allow you to configure options that impact its installation
and behavior. For example, the **Python Console** plugin allows you to
choose which console implementation to use. You can access these options
for any plugin by selecting the gear icon in its title bar. If no gear
icon is present, the plugin has not been configured to provide an
options menu.

**Rviz:** To load Husky into your Rviz plugin, select **open config**
from the drop down menu, and navigate to
**/opt/ros/noetic/share/husky_viz/rviz/view_robot.rviz**. You should now
see a model of Husky loaded in Rviz! By default, this config file will
include the simulated laser, and you can see the object in Husky's path
in the Gazebo environment.

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/load_config_rqt.png)

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/with_plugins_Gazebo.png)

**Plot:** The Plot tool is useful to plot a particular topic in real
time, for this example we will be plotting the commanded odometery topic
versus the simulated odometrey. In the input window on the top right of
the plot plugin, add the following topics in each plot:

- /odometry/filtered/twist/twist/angular/z
- /husky_velocity_controller/odom/twist/twist/angular/z

**Robot Steering:** The robot steering plugin provides us with a simple
way to manually drive Husky, all that is required is to specify the
topic which accepts the velocity commands to move your Robot, for our
virtual Husky, that topic is **/cmd_vel**.

It's time to put it together! Try commanding Husky to turn in place
using the robot steering plugin, and watch your Husky is RViz spin in
place while it's updating the laser scan! You should also see the
commanded odometry in one of your plots, while the actual odometry lags
slightly behind as it catches up to the desired value.

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/graph_topics.png)

**Rqt bag**: Rosbag is an extremely useful tool for logging, and our
support team may often ask for a bag file to take a closer look at your
system. It's possible to record a bag through the terminal, but using
rqt is much simpler and more intuitive. Let's record a bag file of
Husky driving around by clicking the record button, and selecting the
topics you want to record. Once you're happy with the data recorded,
stop the recording.

Playing a bag file back is just as simple. Let's go ahead and close rqt
and Gazebo so ROS is no longer running, then start ROS again with just
roscore

```
roscore
```

And open rqt back up and load the ROS bag plugin again

```
rqt
```

This time we are going to open up the bag file we just recorded by
clicking the 2nd button. You'll now see all the topics that were
recorded, and when messages were sent over that topic. You can take a
closer look at a particular ticket by right clicking and selecting to
view either the values or plot a particular topic.

![image](/img/software_images/ros/tutorials/ros101/Bag_reply.png)

For more information regarding rqt, please visit the [ROS Wiki
page](http://wiki.ros.org/rqt), if you have any questions regarding this
particular tutorial, please don't hesitate to contact us!
